Adding How-to delete data (#4110)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/howto/data.rst

Deleting data
=============

> By default, every time you run or submit a new calculation or workflow, AiiDA will create for you new nodes in the database, and will never replace or delete data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, every time you run or submit a new calculation, AiiDA will create for you new nodes in the database, and will never replace or delete data.
```

There are cases, however, when it might be useful to delete nodes that are not useful anymore, for instance test runs or incorrect/wrong data and calculations.

> In this case, AiiDA provides a ``verdi node delete`` command to remove the nodes from the provenance graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this case, AiiDA provides the ``verdi node delete`` command to remove the nodes from the provenance graph.
```

> .. note::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. caution::
```

>    The ``verdi node delete`` command should be used with great care.
> 
>    First, once the data is deleted, there is no way to recover it (unless you made a backup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Once the data is deleted, there is no way to recover it (unless you made a backup).
```

   Even more critically, even if you ask to delete only one node, ``verdi node delete`` will typically delete a number of additional linked nodes, in order to preserve a consistent state of the provenance graph.
   For instance, if you delete an input of a calculation, AiiDA will delete also the calculation itself (as otherwise you would be effectively changing the inputs to that calculation in the provenance graph).
   The full set of consistency rules are explained in detail :ref:`here <topics:provenance:consistency>`.

   Therefore: always check the output of ``verdi node delete`` to make sure that it is not deleting more than you expect.
   You can also use the ``--dry-run`` flag of ``verdi node delete`` to see what the command would do without performing any actual operation.

> In addition, there are a number of additional rules that are not mandatory to ensure consistency, but can be toggled by the user.

Reviewer: Is this referring to the text in the "note" block? Usually one should be able to assume that the flow of the text is not interrupted if one omits reading the extra blocks.

Author: Indeed - I also had the same doubt. I now left only a minimal note/caution block, and moved the content outside. The other option was to move everything in the block but it seemed less elegant.

The full list of these flags is available from the help command ``verdi node delete -h``.

Deleting computers
------------------
To delete a computer, you can use ``verdi computer delete``.
This command is mostly useful if, right after creating a computer, you realise that there was an error and you want to remove it.
In particular, note that ``verdi computer delete`` will prevent execution if the computer has been already used by at least one node. In this case, you will need to use ``verdi node delete`` to delete first the corresponding nodes.

Deleting mutable data
---------------------
A subset of data in AiiDA is mutable also after storing a node, and is used as a convenience for the user to tag/group/comment on data.
This data can be safely deleted at any time.
This includes, notably:

* *Node extras*: These can be deleted using :py:meth:`~aiida.orm.nodes.node.Node.delete_extra` and :py:meth:`~aiida.orm.nodes.node.Node.delete_extra_many`.
* *Node comments*: These can be removed using :py:meth:`~aiida.orm.nodes.node.Node.remove_comment`.
* *Groups*: These can be deleted using :py:meth:`Group.objects.delete() <aiida.orm.groups.Group.Collection.delete>`.

>   Note that only the group is deleted, while the nodes contained in it are not deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This command will only delete the group, not the nodes contained in the group.
```

Completely deleting an AiiDA profile
------------------------------------

> If you don't want to selectively delete some nodes, but you want to delete a whole AiiDA profile altogether, use the ``verdi profile delete`` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want to selectively delete some nodes, but instead want to delete a whole AiiDA profile altogether, use the ``verdi profile delete`` command.
```

This command will delete both the file repository and the database.

> .. note::
> 
>   This operation cannot be undone.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that this warning is *really* necessary, but if we keep then it should maybe be a bit more explicit.
```suggestion
.. danger::

  It is not possible to restore a deleted profile unless it was previously backed up!
```
